RPA - Vendors.
Firstly, I would like to just mention that I am in no way affiliated with or endorsed by any RPA
providers.
This lesson is based upon the work of Forrester, which is a well-known research and advisory firm
worldwide, who performs quarterly and yearly evaluations of robotic process automation providers.
Note that this is also an assessment of what Forrester find as the top vendors in the market, and it
doesn't necessarily represent the entire vendor landscape.
Forrester categorizes providers into what they call "Leaders", "Strong performers", "Contenders" and
"Challengers".
In its latest report, Forrester identified the 14 most significant RPA providers and researched, analyzed
and scored them among 25 different criteria.
The report shows how each provider measures up, and it helps organizations make the right choice when
it comes to what RPA tool to use.
The 25 evaluation criteria are grouped into three high level categories, the first one is "Current offering".
...
So each vendor's position on the vertical axis of the Forrester Wave graphic that you now see in front of
you, indicates the strength of its current offering.
Key criteria include task and process discovery and portfolio analysis, bot design and development,
deployment and management of the bots; security and governance, scaling experience and architecture.
And then we have "Strategy". Placement on the horizontal axis indicates the strength of the vendor's strategies,
where product vision and innovation roadmap; delivery and support models, financial performance,
and partner ecosystems are evaluated.
The last high level category is "Market Presence", and market presence is represented by the size of
the markers on the graphic. The score reflect each vendor's number and dollar value of RPA customers,
as well as the overall RPA product revenue.
There are six RPA providers that did very well among most criteria and that are evaluated as "Leaders".
These are UiPath, Automation Anywhere, Microsoft, Nice, Kryon and Work Fusion; where UiPath was recognized
as the ultimate leader and achieved the highest score in all of the three high level categories mentioned.
Although UiPath has been pointed out as the leader for many years now, this is the first time they
actually achieved the highest score in all these categories.
Please also note that it may be of interest to pay attention to larger actors now entering the RPA
market space.
Microsoft is a newcomer on this list after acquiring Softomotive in 2020,
and Microsoft are now offering RPA capabilities in their Power Automate product.
Personally, I've been working with UiPath, Blue Prism and Automation Anywhere, and these are still
the three RPA providers with the highest presence and size in the market space, meaning that they
are the market leaders speaking in more traditional terms.
Looking at another ranking of RPA providers, and this time from IT Central Station, which is one
of the world's leading product reviews sites for enterprise technology, we again find UiPath as the
leader, followed by Automation Anywhere and Blue Prism.
So this is a very interesting ranking as it's based solely on aggregated user reviews. To find out how
they compare on a more detailed level and to find the right tool for you,
I suggest you have a deeper look at the Forrester Wave report or at the user reviews at IT Central Station,
and I will provide you with the links.
In this training, we will continue with UiPath.
UiPath offers the proven and reliable tools and technologies needed to build effective RPA bots
for even the most complex of processes.
And I believe UiPath will continue to lead the way in developing new and innovative technology that
helps drive RPA adoption in more businesses and organizations around the globe.
UiPath is the most popular tool,
it has free online training and certification programs,
it has a great and open community for both developers and project managers that you can participate
and contribute in.
And it is also the tool, of course, where I have the most hands-on experience myself.
In the next module, you will download and use their software for free and immediately start learning
RPA development.
So that is really something to look forward to.